---
layout: post
title:      "What the Javascript and Rails Project Taught Me"
date:       2020-09-24 20:43:02 +0000
permalink:  what_the_javascript_and_rails_project_taught_me
---


 This blog post is about my second to last project in the Flat Iron Software Engineering bootcamp. I started the bootcamp in February of 2020. Its been challenging but very rewarding and I feel like a programmer more and more each module. This project, I was tasked with creating an application using Rails as an API(backend) and Vanilla Javascript for my frontend. 
	I want to talk about mindset for a second and let you know I am recovering from a fixed mindset. At the beginning of this bootcamp I just started my recovery. Each mod and project my growth mindset gets stronger.
	First, I start this project with planning. I decided on making a web app for a fictional food truck. A user can go on to the app and add items from a menu to their selections, submit their selections and pay for the items. I named the app “Thank You For Tia.” This is what I would call my food truck if I can one day convince my wife to cook her Peruvian dishes for the world. 
 Next, I got started on my backend. Building my models, controllers and migrations. I used `rails g scaffold` to help build these a little faster. Knowing I would have to clean up the controllers and routes later. Next I worked on my Model relationships and added the ruby gem `‘active_model_serializers`. There is a lot of documentation on adding this gem, I won’t go into that. One of the last backend things I had to do was create my Menu in a seeds.rb file so I can seed it into my MenuItem Model. The front end will be able to make a `get fetch request` to the MenuItem model and receive the menu objects from the backend for display on the DOM. 
 After my backend was set up I started on my front end. During this process I got caught up in styling the page before It was fully functional. This didn’t feel productive so I refocused and put styling as a task for later in my project. Lesson learned, get the website functioning and then worry about how it looks. My next lesson learned was when building out my `POST fetch` request.
	While building my `POST fetch` request I couldn’t figure out why my strong params weren’t being permitted. This threw me. I started reviewing rails strong params and javascript fetch requests. I spent hours refreshing my knowledge on these topics. Finally, I found a solution that helped me move on to the next function in my app. But, It turns out it was not a great solution. My instructor pointed out to me that I am not passing a key to the strong params in my Orders controller. How did I miss that? Anyway, I was sending the request to my Orders controller which accepts nested attributes for menu selections. The json information I was sending to rails looked like ex:`{menu_selections: [{}]}`. I needed it to look like ex: `{order: {menu_selections: [{}]}}`. With all that said, this was a small problem but I am grateful for moments like this one. Because during that time I was panicking, thinking to myself “You won’t finish this in time,” “Can I start over with a new idea?” and I shut that voice off fast. This is why I mentioned the growth mindset earlier. With out the growth mindset this little problem could break a new programmer. When in reality new programmers need these moments to grow.
	So, I was on the home stretch and feeling good because what I learned is what I already knew. I knew that a programmer takes a big problem and breaks it down into smaller problems that they solve one by one. After that bump everything just fell into place and I coded out my patch and delete fetch requests. I learned how to make a modal and create gradients. Thinking like a programmer became MY way of thinking during this project. I find myself approaching all things in life this way. I know that I will have doubts again but I will handle them faster and better each time. I’m grateful for this project. I’m grateful for this bootcamp. 
